If a human brain is a physical system that can think, is there any reason to suppose
that some other system shouldn't be capable of doing likewise? And I see my answer is absolutely
no reason why not. I don't see anything unique that sets the human brain. I think the question
really, it becomes metaphysical. I think the question, what lurking behind or beneath
the surface of this whole debate is, do we feel that the human mind can be adequately
accounted for by the familiar laws of physics and no more? Or does the phenomenon of mind
require something extra, some life force, some mystical agency and soul, call it what you like?
And depending how we answer that question, I think that will shape our answer to the
artificially intelligent issue. Personally, I feel that the human mind requires nothing
extra to account for it. That being so, there's no reason why an equally complex system that
happened to have come from some other origin than natural evolution. In other words, having
been conceived and built by human beings, shouldn't be capable of the same.
And fading on, different design parameters. In other words, a system that's designed to
be good in a particular area is usually pretty bad in others. A high level interceptor jet
has got excellent speed and maneuverability, but it's not much good for hauling freight.
And a school bus is pretty good for getting kids to school, but it won't win many trophies
on a racing circuit. Blind light, whatever you're designing for, you try and trade off
things so that the specification is maximized towards getting done the things that you want
the system to do. And the panel is that you pay a page in areas that you don't want it to do.
Some systems are designed to be compromised and they're designed to do a wide range of
things moderately well, although I suppose you couldn't argue that they excel in versatility.
And probably the most versatile system that we know is the human brain. It can do pretty
well anything to a degree. And we're never satisfied with its performance in any one area,
so we're continually building things like microscopes and telescopes and calculating
machines to improve its scope. And each one of those additional devices will excel the human brain
by many orders of magnitude in its own field of specialty and be absolutely useless for anything else.
Alright, I believe Daryl has a few questions.
Yeah, so the point I was leading up to is that the human brain seems to be specialized in versatility
and it might well be that one of nature's basic trade-offs is that thinking big and thinking small
are mutually exclusive. When you lift your arm to comb your hair it requires the coordinated action
of about 40 separate muscles. Now if you had to consciously monitor every step of that sequence
to lift your arm, you wouldn't get much else done. You certainly wouldn't build many cities
or compose many symphonies or really be very much of a high level intelligent being at all.
And it seems pretty inescapable that in the course of evolution what actually happens in practice
is when you think lift your arm, one high level command triggers off the whole sequence of micro-instructions
that are micro-coded into the nervous system. Which is analogous to many computer operations today.
And you just think one thought consciously and the rest just takes place without any further intervention on your part.
And it's easy to see the survival value of a process like that and why it would be reinforced in the process of evolution.
So that the level at which the human brain is mechanical, a lot of arguments against artificial intelligence that I've heard
they make the point that a computer is deterministic, that its circuits function exactly the way they're programmed mechanically
and they don't have any variability or whimsical behavior built into them.
But at its basic hardware level this is true of the human brain also.
The basic neuron of the brain is every bit as mechanical as an integrated circuit chip.
If the inputs that are, the sum of the inputs that are applied to it exceed a certain threshold it will fire and if they don't it won't.
The variability becomes manifest through the complexity of the organization at a far higher level, properly if you will.
But we as thinking conscious totalities we manipulate abstract symbols that represent the world that we perceive and the world we live in such as places, people, emotions and things.
We are not consciously aware of the mechanically precise hardware level of operation of our brains.
In other words our neurons or even that we have any.
Whereas it was shut off from that level of operation.
An interesting thought is that if we ever built a system that was capable of emulating the human brain in all its variety of versatility
we might find that one of the trade-offs that it pays for being that versatile and that general is that it gets shut off from its hardware level too.
And it can't calculate, it can't remember word for word a conversation it had last week.
And perhaps if it wanted to calculate pie to a couple of thousand decimal places it would have to build itself a computer or buy one.
That's another good reason for imagining that maybe you wouldn't call it a computer anymore.
Perhaps we should call it a biologically reproduced artificial intelligence.
And since computer people deny an acronym that would certainly be short to brain which would describe it pretty well.
You planned that didn't you?
I wrote it somewhere in an article a while ago.
Alright here are some short questions which we may use as inserts.
I'll try and give you answers a little shorter.
No that's okay.
Which novel is your best-selling novel?
In Herod the Stars because it's been on sale the longest.
And been translated into the most languages.
So it's the most top is.
The more recent ones are selling at a faster rate than in Herod the Stars did when it was first released.
If that makes sense.
Do you think you could write a fantasy story?
Yeah but I don't know if it would be what a lot of people have in mind when they use the word fantasy.
I discussed this with a number of editors.
I suppose we ought to try and agree on the definition of fantasy firstly.
I would offer that my interpretation of fantasy would be stories setting, times or places in which the laws of cause and effect don't work the way they do in the universe we know.
And they're not simple extrapolations from the laws we know.
In other words magic works or something akin to magic.
The phenomena happened which to us would be inexplicable by our laws of physics and cause and effect and we would have to describe as magic.
Is that a reasonably acceptable definition of what fantasy is?
I believe so.
Yeah I would say that.
If we're going to write in that realm I would submit that surely the opportunity is for...
Well the term itself is new but the purpose it serves and the way it serves it is not really.
People from the beginnings of history have had a need or have got enjoyment from escapism.
Escaping for a while out of their own humdrum lives, their own humdrum places and going to places new and places different.
And writers have enjoyed or storytellers have been able to...
I used stretch their imagination and exercised their creativity if they were able to break out of the limitations that are imposed by geography and history as they are.
And the conventions and rules of society as they happen to exist.
In other words you can do so much more if you never mind the constraints of helping.
Let's imagine they might be somewhere else.
And in centuries gone by when the world was only partly explored it was easy to do this by simply inventing places.
I think Gulliver's travels or the Arabian nights or even to an island in the Pacific or an unexplored part of South America.
But of course in these days with the whole world mapped and surveyed by satellites you really can't do that credibly.
And the only dimensions left in which the writer can create new worlds and shed those constraints are the dimensions of space and time which really gives a science fiction.
And if we agree on that I then suggest that the fantasy writer goes one step further.
The fantasy writer not only discards the constraints of history and geography and society as they happen to exist in the real world.
The fantasy writer also discards the constraints of the laws of physics as they operate in the real world.
And my conclusion from that would be that if the opportunity for originality, creativity, imagination to go to its limit exist anywhere they should surely exist in the field of fantasy.
The opportunity is for true originality greater in no other branch of literature.
I think it's rather disappointing or rather surprising.
Yet time and time and time again we see the same symbols of people in clothes and medieval hats that went out of style here hundreds of years ago.
Living in tax prodigies and waving swords around.
It seems to me that that opportunity is not being exploited at all in a lot of cases anyway.
And a number of editors have asked me to write fantasy and I said well I think about it.
If I did I think I would try and use that opportunity as I think it can be and should be.
It could be used if we're just retelling medieval fairy tales.
I think it's almost fantasy under false pretenses.
It's not really recognizing or realizing the potential of what fantasy really is.
I believe if you did write a fantasy novel it would be a different type than a lot of fantasy writers are used to reading.
Yeah I think it would. Whether that would be popular or a lot I don't know.
And if I'd asked at this stage what would it be about the only answer is I haven't the faintest idea because I haven't thought about it.
But if I did sit down and seriously think about doing something in that area it would be with the considerations that I've just outlined taken into account.
What might come out of it wouldn't have only noticed if it was that obvious. I suppose it wouldn't be fantasy.
Right. Has anybody approached you about movie rights than your novel so far?
Yeah we've talked to a number of companies to date and nothing's come out of it.
Any particular story in particular?
Oh inherit the stars, two faces mainly.
I'd love to see inherit the stars.
So with regards to the future who knows maybe. I think it's the only safe thing to say at this stage.
We don't take that as an indication that anything is positively moving on that front at this point in time as far as I'm aware it is.
Yeah I was just curious. This is what we probably show this just goes in our information file.
We keep all the tapes that we tape, the master tapes are unedited. We copy them off on a copy tapes and edit those.
Are we in interview time now or is this just chit chat?
This is just chit chat.
Oh it's just chit chat.
I'm getting quite interested in two faces of tomorrow but I think in the end he decided not to go ahead.
My own impression is, this is of course my own opinion, Erwin Allen has never been able to handle science fiction.
He has never really got a grasp of it.
Well I haven't been very impressed if we're not being broadcast if this is just between us.
I'm not very impressed by many science fiction movies to be honest.
Yeah, just out of curiosity, which one out of the science fiction movies would you find impressive?
Which one?
Yeah.
I missed the question. Which one is there like?
Which one would you think would be a good science fiction movie?
Out of the books.
No, out of the movies.
What do you think would be a good science fiction movie?
Which movies were good?
Yes.
I haven't seen many of them mainly because I don't like the ones I did see.
I remember being very impressed by 2001.
It's very in mind that it came out sometime around the mid-sectus and I thought that the technical detail and the authenticity was exceptional.
And I was on the edge of my feet looking forward to a really, you know, the whole thing to develop into a really crisp story with a...
I must confess I was a little let down. I didn't understand the ending. I don't know what happened.
You know, Arthur went into this abstract symbolic kind of thing and it didn't mean anything to me.
I had dinner one night without the clock and I said Arthur what did the ending of 2001 mean?
And he said I don't know.
It's...coubrekin that various movie people wanted to end it one way and somebody wanted to end it another way.
And Arthur said he just walked away and let them tell it and he didn't ever understood what they ended up with either.
So I think that's kind of a council or puts to rest a lot of the very, very ingenious interpretations that I've listened to from the most people.
That's good. I'd had heard that story before. I'm going to remember that one.
Yeah. But in fact, there's really no secret because I told Arthur this that 2001 was one of the factors that inspired me to write Inherit the Stars.
I loved the idea of something being found, a mystery being uncovered in the course of lunar exploration that was sufficiently intriguing to motivate a lot of scientists into unraveling it.
It seemed a good opportunity to set the scientific detective story that I wanted to write.
You know, okay, let's have the detective story or the mystery that the detectives are trying to solve hinge around something that's turned up on the moon.
Well, dead bodies are always pretty good for detective stories.
It ought to be a more interesting dead body than the standard detective thriller.
So let's make it 15,000 years old and human, which raises the whole, opens up the whole bag of words.
And that's just the how they unravel that.
And I wanted the ending to be a bit of a twist, a bit unexpected, a bit of a surprise.
But nevertheless, plausible and rational within the context of the story.
I didn't want to bring in mystical agencies or strange laws of physics or anything like this to hold it together.
And you did what every good mystery writer does is give the reader enough information to solve the mystery himself if he's got the perception to do it.
I think so. I think that's on his fiction too. I think Tony suspense, cheating and holding back information from the reader.
Darling, that's good fiction. I think that if writers who do that, because they're trying to create an atmosphere of mystery and make the reader curious,
I don't think that's a fair way of going about it.
I think in fairness, as a courtesy to the reader, the reader should know as much as the characters know.
And I think it's kind of weak where you know the character knows something and the writer won't tell you what it is.
He's almost playing games with the reader. I know something you don't know.
That's not fair. I think that this information becomes available to the characters so the reader should become aware of it.
So the reader has the same opportunity as the character to figure it out.
And the suspense and the reader's curiosity should be aroused by more skillful methods than simply depriving them of information and keeping them guessing.
Well, of teasing them. Yes, they should be kept guessing, but not by being cheated.
Yeah, I may have to retract my statement here about this not being used. That was such an extraordinarily good answer.
We may incorporate that into a future program.
Sure, I mean if you want to use that, that's fine. It's just when we were mentioning names like Arthur Clark and Irwin Allen,
I think if we're going out in public, I'd rather just edit those out.
Oh yeah, that's no problem. Now the thing on mystery writing, because we're going to eventually produce a program on science fiction detective stories,
because there aren't a whole lot of them. And since we'll have this on our information tape, if we ever do, we'll call you up and tell you that we're doing it, and then we'll send you a copy tape of it.
Oh well, I trust you integrity. But I think if we're talking about personal things that were said over lunch, you need confidence.
I prefer not to go completely like that.
No, we wouldn't do that.
Okay.
Well, I've exhausted my supply of questions.
Personally, I happen to enjoy your work very, very much.
Thank you.
In fact, one of the things that, oh yeah, our students in our science fiction class that we're teaching this semester at the college are reading your novel, Inherit the Stars, is one of the novels for the class.
I'm great to hear it.
And this radio show will be aired the weekend before they meet in class, so they'll be hearing these conversations before we talk about it in class.
Fine.
It just so happens that it works out that way.
Well, you can tell them if they enjoy it, they like the General Giants, and there's a third one in the pipeline, and it'll be out in-gen.
Yeah.
Now yeah, we've remarked that on some instances after reading some of your stuff, I wonder if we just can't go out to Radio Shack and buy enough parts to build some of those things.
I get a lot of others like that.
But I think it is rewarding that your comment on learning is one that appears frequently as well, that people do seem to find this kind of fiction stimulating, and that it gives them the urge to want to get up and get out and do something meaningful.
And, well, surely that's a good thing.
I think just my own observation would be that we're so bombarded by war and things that are going wrong and things don't work out.
And yet, in your novel, as you show us society that if you work at it, things can work out.
I think that's what I'm trying to say.
I think it could, I think it can.
It doesn't guarantee that it will.
I think there is a borderline between optimism and naive innocence.
I think it's kind of healthily optimistic to recognize that we, I think we have it in our, in our, in our future lives entirely in our own hands.
But it's not a new observation these days to look out across the size of the universe we live in.
And even really the pictures that we see through the palom or telescope and things like that really don't convey the vastness.
Our own galaxy contains something like a couple of hundred billion stars, I believe.
It's 100,000 light years in diameter, light would say to 100,000 years to cross just our galaxy.
And that sounds what it is, an unimaginable distance.
And yet, that galaxy, there are more galaxies than anybody can count.
Gretel and Starr, the number of galaxies is just beyond counting.
And the best analogy that modern science can come up with of the universe is that of a gas of galaxy molecules.
Imagine the number of molecules swirling around in the room that you're sitting in.
And imagine every one of those is a galaxy.
And every one of those galaxies contains their hundred billion stars.
And you happen to be on a little ball of mud that's attached to one of them.
It ain't much. And I don't really feel anything intimidating about this.
Yeah, we're insignificant in terms of the universe, but looked at in another way.
It is very exhilarating and very liberating.
Because what it really says is that we are not cogs in a cockwork machine that somebody has programmed the rules for.
That we're doomed or not, depending on somebody else's whim.
That we are a totally self-sufficient, self-determining species.
And the limits to expansion and growth around us, potentially, are limitless.
There are no limits, I believe, to how far and how high the human species can expand, both in terms of how far it can travel and the things it can achieve.
I think it's entirely up to us.
And I think it's an exercise in self-deception to rely on big brothers in the sky or magical forces to solve our problems for us or make our problems go away.
They won't.
But the realization that we have the ability and the opportunity to do it, I find is very exciting.
But if we make a mess of it, and there's no guarantee that we won't, there's certainly no doubt that the universe won't miss us.
If that one little speck of dust vanishes, the rest of the gas of galaxies isn't even going to see the difference.
So it really is entirely up to us.
And we hear a lot of talk about freedom these days.
Of course, freedom and responsibility are different sides of the same coin.
If you are totally free to determine your course of action and nobody places any constraints on you, then by the same token you are responsible for the consequences of those actions.
And I think we've got that coin.
I think we are totally free to do anything we choose.
There are no constraints. There are no limits. I think we have the potential.
We also have the responsibility to our thoughts, I think that's the thing that as a race week we need to wake up to and acknowledge because with the levels of power that we're beginning to harness and play with,
it's becoming a very serious issue.
I don't think the solution is to run away from the responsibility and go back to playing with windmills or wood burning stoves or primitive levels of existence as some people would advocate that we do.
I think that's an abdication.
I think we need to realize that the next run upwards on the ladder of evolution that we're on requires us to comprehend those forces that we're beginning to understand and learn how to use them responsibly.
And I think that all the, you mentioned war a little while ago, yes we have the potential to wipe ourselves out and I think we also on the other side of the coin we also have the ability to solve the problems that a war would otherwise be fought over.
It makes sense to me to talk about fighting a global war over a little bit of oil under the desert, a few metals and mineral ore in South Africa or something like that because the little pockets of energy that happened to be trapped around the surface of this planet are just our investment capital for starting the business.
No business has to run forever on its investment capital.
If that's just your startup capital you invest that and make the profit to pay your way as your business grows and expands.
And I think that's true that with energy and with other resources too.
I think resources only finite within the context of a given level of technology and when you go through a, when civilization goes through a phase change into the higher level of technology the resources that were previously finite seem to be relevant.
It doesn't matter anymore.
The economy in history depended on animal power and slaves, horses, how much wood you could carry and limited the extent to which earlier economies could be stretched.
They're totally irrelevant in the context of today's high technology economy.
We worry about oil and gas and things.
I say yes they're finite and yes they won't last forever.
I don't think it matters a damn because we're likely to, we could be, into technologies far more advanced in which fossil fuels are simply irrelevant.
It's just not worth the cost or the messing around and drilling them out the ground anymore.
I think that could happen long before they run out.
So I don't particularly see that as an area to get concerned over unless people become trapped in the straight jacket of their own narrow short-term thinking.
I believe it's worth fighting a war over.
I don't think it is.
Which is, again, not to say that everybody will see it that way.
Yeah, I think lots of times we probably end up being manipulated by the media that we are bombarded with all the time.
I miss that, Dave.
Lots of times I think we're manipulated by the media that we're bombarded with all the time.
You know, the newspapers and TV.
Yeah, I'm sure a lot of this goes on.
I'm not so sure that as much of it goes on as some people seem to think.
I'm sure a lot of it does.
I'm sure a lot of vested interests are tied up with stretching our existing technologies for a little while longer yet.
A lot of money has been invested in refineries and tankers and mining rights and drilling rights and that kind of thing.
I'm sure it's in the interest of a lot of powerful lobbies to keep us using those things for a while longer yet.
I don't really see that as sinister or unethical.
I suppose it is in some ways, but it's good business sense in other ways.
We're taking the long term view.
I think that when the need gets acute enough, then we will solve the problem.
I have no doubt we have the ability to do it.
I just hope that happens before anybody starts pressing button.
Yeah, I think one of the best examples I could think of is, I believe it was Brazil that converted all their cars,
most of their gas using cars to alcohol.
Ford Motor Company is making the cars for them.
And they did that.
Of course, they have a fairly efficient form of government.
It's a dictatorship.
I don't think it could work.
They have a different economic framework.
It wouldn't work in the United States.
They have a stricter form of government.
They have the lower wages.
I hesitate to use the word test because of its derogatory connotations.
But a lot of human labor goes into harvesting the cane and the biomass that makes the alcohol.
And human labor that is cheap and freely available, that low wages.
And you can sell it at the pump for far less than you could sell it for in this country.
Where do you get your army of laborers to harvest the stuff here?
I think it's a very inefficient solution to the problem anyway.
The value of liquid fuels and sources that they provide,
the terms and storage of energy, and that they are portable and highly concentrated.
I think that our high technology knows how,
and our investment capital will be far better
put into developing nuclear processes planned out and using hydrogen-based economies.
Yeah, I was reading something in the whole,
as either popular mechanics or one of them, that theoretical hydrogen powered cars.
Sure, I think lucky to experiment with hydrogen-fueled aircraft.
And it burns clean, and I think there are some problems.
This may have changed, but from something I read a while ago,
I think that the storage efficiency in terms of the calories you store for town weight,
not as high as you get from gasoline,
but I think with the kind of development capital that they've been talking about,
up until recently anyway, about putting into converting coal and things like that,
to liquids, in what my opinion is a lot of nonsense.
But I think it's probably an extremely important or a high-intensity appeal.
A lot of people produce a lot of sums about to show you how much energy you could get from this source or that source,
but a very important quantity that is not mentioned and recognized often enough is energy density.
The density at which you harness energy is a very important indicator
of how efficiently the efficiency of the process is.
You're getting smarter things done more efficiently.
For instance, as an example, a simple arithmetic would enable you to calculate how much wood you'd need to burn
to lift 300 people across the Atlantic, or to release the energy to lift 300 people across the Atlantic.
But now, outside, we're building a wood burning 747.
It won't work. It's just not dense enough.
You need jet fuel, a far more highly concentrated form,
to make power plants small enough and light enough to lift themselves in a payload off the ground.
Now, the density of nuclear processes is four millions of times higher,
and in the case of fusion theoretically, trillions of times higher
than anything you could get from rupturing any chemical bond, and I think it's a primary energy source.
That's the way we have to go.
And that's for storing the energy that, in a convenient form, for example, for transportation,
hydrogen, cyan, and hydrolyquid hydrogen, or some form of hydrogen based on that,
which is plentiful enough in the oceans.
And if you look beyond, people think of nuclear fission and nuclear fusion as just another way of running a generating plant, but it's not.
It is kind of a breakthrough into a whole realm of potential technologies that have the promise of springlining
and cleaning up and generally compacting a whole range of industrial processes.
For example, at the temperature of nuclear plasmas, sea water cracks firmly into hydrogen and oxygen,
far more efficiently than it can be achieved by electrolysis.
So as a byproduct of a nuclear process, you have the possibility of producing very, very cheap hydrogen
on an industrial scale.
De-sale the nation of sea water is another possibility, which this year we've seen the problems,
the water problems associated with industry and agriculture, producing lots of fresh water and the energy to pump it the places it's needed.
It is another whole area that is opened up when you can control energy at this volume and this density.
Primary metals extraction is another.
At the temperature of nuclear plasmas, 10, 100 million degrees Kelvin, any substance breaks down into raw atomic nuclei with all the electrons stripped off.
Every compound breaks up into raw nuclei, which are highly charged and can therefore be separated very easily and very cheaply, magnetically.
Every kind of desert rock sand construction debris contains traces of aluminum, titanium, copper, manganese, you name it,
just about every important metal, but it's just not economic to try and extract it by conventional processes.
But at nuclear temperatures that doesn't apply.
So you can start shovel desert sand through a fusion plasma and then separate out the ions magnetically.
And who needs South Africa for minerals? Get it all out of Arizona?
True.
And you have the potential perhaps for obsoleteing overnight all of our cumbersome and expensive primary metals processing and extraction industry.
And when you develop that technology here, you can take it to the moon and that's how you build your space for the new starships.
Yeah, I hope so.
Of course, can we get carried away then?
Yeah, I enjoy getting carried away though.
Yeah, hopefully I've been talking with several writers and I really do enjoy it.
It's very interesting to talk with somebody whose book you've read.
And I'm beginning to get the writing bug myself.
If I could only spell, I'd be alright.
Well, like everything else, it's one of those things that nobody was born knowing.
Shakespeare had to learn to spell once and Einstein had to learn to count.
Yeah.
Every expert in anything was a beginner sometime.
A point well taken.
Do you see yourself getting out to California in the foreseeable future?
I don't know.
A devil will be out there and I believe he lives less than 100 miles from where you are.
Well, you know, it goes without saying if any of you find yourself over here with some time to spare,
you're welcome to call us and see if we can get together or something.
Oh yeah, I'd really like that.
So consider that an open invitation if any of you and your friends are around this way.
What if you ever get out toward Texas and in between nowhere and nowhere at all, that's where we are.
I'd throw three Texas three times in November, always in the middle of the night it seems.
Well, if you drove through the West part, you didn't miss anything, there wasn't anything there to see.
I don't feel for that about it.
Yeah, well actually I take it back, the country out here kind of grows on the air for a while.
In fact, I think we probably have some of the most beautiful sunsets they'll ever find anywhere
because of the inversion layers and stuff we get out here.
Every color on the rainbow is up in the sky.
Well, you see you're looking west to Adam and we got him right here.
Yeah, oh yeah, it was dark a long time ago here.
Are you going to be at the World Con in Denver?
I haven't decided yet.
I don't know.
Maybe.
Yeah, if you do go we will be there, at least if we have enough money we'll be there.
Yeah, I'm not a good thing or a bad thing but it happens to be a fact.
I'm really not a regular convention goer.
I go to summits, I really enjoy them.
I suppose probably the reason is, this is just a personal suspicion,
but I think I got into being a science fiction writer from probably the diametrically the opposite direction
from the majority of science fiction writers.
I think it's more normal for young people to get interested in science fiction,
typically through friends at college or university who eventually persuade them to go to a convention.
And in a lot of cases they find an environment they enjoy, they find stimulating people they can relate to and it becomes a habit.
And some of those form the ambition to want to contribute something to this genre themselves,
so they start to write something and submit it.
Some of them are lucky and accepted, then they try a novel.
And ten years later there is another writer sitting up on the panel.
And of course during that process the convention going to conventions and being part of conventions
has already become part of a lifestyle that they've absorbed and I really never did.
So I kind of go to them occasionally to see what's happening and to see people and to be sociable,
but I suppose it never started out as part of a pattern of life in years away gone by.
I've never been to a science fiction, well I guess you could call this a convention,
they're having some sort of Star Trek gizmo and Dallas and I stopped by to see what it was.
But I've never really been to a science fiction convention per se.
Well I went to the World Times Boston last year, which was, I enjoyed them,
the World Convention, well the one I've been to was the experience, was pretty huge.
There's only 6,000 people there in several hotels.
And you can spend a whole damn weekend looking for one person that you particularly wanted to meet.
So they can be pretty overpowering.
I've found the small local ones very enjoyable.
Just sort of one day with a hundred or two people.
And in that one day you see everybody and talk to everybody.
There can be a lot of fun too.
Yeah, it is a group that gets together in New Mexico.
We're not too far from New Mexico, we measure things in Texas distances,
so it's nothing to go 400 miles to see somebody.
You couldn't drive out of England without falling off the edge.
And then you go into the water and into the channel on the other.
But now people out here don't take anything going to Dallas to go shopping.
Don't even think twice about it.
How far down is it?
380 miles.
Of course most of the time they fly up there.
Texas has its own airline.
Texas is a strange and wonderful place.
But you can fly up to Dallas and back for 50 bucks.
I'm reaching the point where if I have to get in the car it's a long way.
One of the big attractions of moving to the town I'm living in now is...
It's kind of one of those quite old-fashioned friendly towns.
About 20,000-30,000 people maybe.
But the sidewalks are busy with people.
They shop, shops that are side by side.
And the people stop and talk to you.
And you can walk anywhere.
It isn't like...
I found Orlando was a little like a miniature Los Angeles.
It was like an airport with houses on.
And you couldn't do anything when you were getting in the car.
And this is one of the things...
I like this country. That's why I came to live here.
But one of the aspects of a lot of Americans it is that I haven't got used to.
And don't think I ever will.
Is having to get in a car to do anything.
And it is nice here.
I think 80% of the places I want to go I can just put the jacket on and walk.
Because we live in the town center.
Yeah. Our society is built around the car.
It really is.
I guess that's probably okay if you grew up with it.
It's kind of harder to get used to if you didn't.
If I grew up in the center of London.
You can walk anywhere you want to go.
And if you don't want to walk there's lots of buses and lots of two subways.
Most people didn't own a car.
I never did till I moved out of London.
I hear people...
One person may own a couple of cars.
One person may buy himself two or three cars just to keep him busy.
Not anymore. They get too expensive.